[MRG] DOC New Getting Started guide (#14920)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/getting_started.rst

Getting Started
===============

The purpose of this guide is to illustrate some of the main features that
scikit-learn provides. It assumes a very basic working knowledge of machine
learning practices (model fitting, predicting, cross-validation, etc.).
Please refer to our :ref:`installation instructions
<installation-instructions>` for installing scikit-learn.

Scikit-learn is an open source machine learning library that supports
supervised and unsupervised learning. It provides various tools for model
fitting, data preprocessing, model selection and evaluation, and many other
utilities.

Fitting and predicting: estimator basics
----------------------------------------

Scikit-learn provides dozens of built-in machine learning algorithms and
models, called :term:`estimators`. Each estimator can be fitted to some data

> using its :term:`fit` method.

Author: isn't `fit` the most common term though? I mean, scikit-learn pretty much set the standard ^^

Here is a simple example where we fit a
:class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` to some very basic data::

  >>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
  >>> clf = RandomForestClassifier(random_state=0)
  >>> X = [[1, 2, 3], [11, 12, 13]]  # 2 samples, 3 features
  >>> y = [0, 1]  # classes of each sample
  >>> clf.fit(X, y)

>   RandomForestClassifier(random_state=0)

Author: I can't find the PR (I think it was @thomasjpfan 	?), but yes we did that a while ago already ;)

The :term:`fit` method typically accepts 2 inputs:

- The samples matrix (or design matrix) :term:`X`. The size of ``X``
  is ``(n_samples, n_features)``, which means that samples are represented
  as rows and features are represented as columns.

> - The target values :term:`y` which are real number for regression tasks, or

Reviewer: "real numbers" or "real valued"

> - The target values :term:`y` which are real number for regression tasks, or

Author: Fixed the grammar

>  A discrete set of floating point values can also represent the classes.

I feel like we don't need to be that specific in the getting started guide?

  integer for classification (they can also be strings). For unsupervized
  learning tasks, ``y`` need not be specified. ``y`` is usually  1d array where
  the ith entry corresponds to the target of the ith sample (row) of ``X``.

Both ``X`` and ``y`` are usually expected to be numpy arrays, though other

> formats are also sometimes accepted (e.g. sparse matrices and the more

Reviewer: This makes it sound like support is inconsistent.

```
Both ``X`` and ``y`` are usually expected to be numpy arrays or equivalent :term:`array-like`,
data types, though some estimators work with other formats such as sparse matrices.
```

general :term:`array-like`).

Once the estimator is fitted, it can be used for predicting target values of
new data. You don't need to re-train the estimator::

  >>> clf.predict(X)  # predict classes of the training data
  array([0, 1])
  >>> clf.predict([[4, 5, 6], [14, 15, 16]])  # predict classes of new data
  array([0, 1])

Transformers and Pipelines
--------------------------

> Machine learning models are often composed of different parts. A typical

Author: +1, I used "workflow" and "pipeline"

model consists of a pre-processing step that transforms the data, and a
final predictor that predicts target values.

In scikit-learn, pre-processors and transformers follow the same API as the
estimators objects (they actually all inherit from the same
``BaseEstimator`` class). These objects don't have a :term:`predict` method
but rather a :term:`transform` method that outputs a newly transformed

> sample matrix ``X``::

Author: too specific for a starting guide?

  >>> from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
  >>> X = [[0, 15],
  ...      [1, -10]]
  >>> StandardScaler().fit(X).transform(X)
  array([[-1.,  1.],
         [ 1., -1.]])

Transformers and estimators (predictors) can be combined together into a single
unifying object: a :class:`~sklearn.pipeline.Pipeline`.

In the following example, we :ref:`load the Iris dataset <datasets>`, split it
into train and test sets, and compute its accuracy score on the test data. The
pipeline offers the same API as a regular estimator: it can be fitted and

> used for predictions with ``fit`` and ``predict``::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used for prediction with ``fit`` and ``predict``::
```

  >>> from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
  >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
  >>> from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
  >>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
  >>> from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score
  ...
  >>> preprocessor = StandardScaler()
  >>> predictor = LogisticRegression(random_state=0)

>   >>> pipe = make_pipeline(preprocessor, predictor)

Reviewer 2: we don't really need the `preprocessor` and `predictor` variables here, and I think in reality we don't encourage people to have them. This tutorial should be what we want people to actually do, since they're gonna be copy/pasting from here.

Author: I wanted to make clear that we want instances here, but I agree that can give them bad ideas!

  ...
  >>> X, y = load_iris(return_X_y=True)
  >>> X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, random_state=0)
  >>> pipe.fit(X_train, y_train)  # fit the preprocessor first, then the predictor
  Pipeline(steps=[('standardscaler', StandardScaler()),
                  ('logisticregression', LogisticRegression(random_state=0))])

  >>> accuracy_score(pipe.predict(X_test), y_test)
  0.97...

Model evaluation
----------------

> Once a model has been fitted, it is natural to evaluate its performance on

Reviewer: Or even "Fitting a model to some data does not entail that it will predict well on unseen data. This needs to be directly evaluated."

unseen data. We have just seen the
:func:`~sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split` helper, but scikit-learn
provides many other tools for model evaluation, in particular for
:ref:`cross-validation <cross_validation>`.

> We here briefly show how to perform a 3-folds cross-validation using the

Reviewer 2: we have moved away from a default 3 fold to a default 5 fold (IIRC), which I think should be what we present here.

:func:`~sklearn.model_selection.cross_validate` helper. Note that it is also
possible to manually iterate over the folds, and to use different data
splitting strategies. Please refer to our :ref:`User Guide
<cross_validation>` for more details.

>   >>> from sklearn.datasets import make_regression

Reviewer 2: indentation issue?

  >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import KFold
  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import cross_validate
  ...
  >>> X, y = make_regression(n_samples=1000, random_state=0)
  >>> lr = LinearRegression()
  >>> cv = KFold(n_splits=3)
  ...

>   >>> result = cross_validate(lr, X, y, cv=cv)

Reviewer 2: not sure if just using an integer instead of a CV object is easier/better here.

Author: I just purely removed it and added a comment that indicates the default

  >>> result['test_score']
  array([1., 1., 1.])

> Automatic parameter searches

Reviewer 2: Could even call this `Hyper parameter tuning`

Reviewer 2: lol, I like your subtle thumb down, what would you call it instead @jnothman ?

Reviewer: I gave a thumbs up to the "aka hyperparameters" suggestion below.

Reviewer: There is various terminology used in scikit-learn that is not ideal in hindsight (as language changes), but for consistency it's best to call these "parameters". I'd also consider calling it "Model selection"

Author: "Automatic parameter search and tuning" ?

----------------------------

> All estimators have parameters that can be tuned for the predictions to be as

Reviewer 2: may be say _(a.k.a. hyper-parameters in the literature)_

> good as possible. For example a

Reviewer 2: This is more about better generalization of the model on the unseen data, not better predictions on the data we have, which is not clear from the sentence now.

:class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor` has a ``n_estimators``
parameters that determines the number of trees in the forest, and a
``max_depth`` parameter that determines the maximum depth of each tree.
Quite often, it is not clear what the exact values of these parameters should
be since they depend on the data at hand.

> Scikit-learn provides tools to automatically search the best parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scikit-learn provides tools to automatically find the best parameter
```

combinations (via cross-validation). In the following example, we randomly

> search over the parameter state of a random forest with a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
search over the parameter space of a random forest with a
```

:class:`~sklearn.model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` object. When the search
is over, the :class:`~sklearn.model_selection.RandomizedSearchCV` behaves as

> a :class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor` that has been fitted with

Reviewer 2: we should use a pipeline instead of a single model, to illustrate how to treat the whole pipeline as an estimator, as well as how to pass grid search parameters of a pipeline.

Author: Ugh, I agree but I'm a bit concerned that the `estimator__param` logic is a bit too much/scary for such an introduction.

Would you be OK to add a note that basically says in practice you always want to use a pipeline, let alone for the fact that it prevents data leaks?

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's scary. We may have to add a paragraph or two to explain how it works, but ideally at the end of this tutorial, the user has a code snippet they can copy/paste and use. I know we want to discourage people from copy pasting random code, but that's what they do. Also, if it's too scary for people to pass the pipeline parameters to a gridsearch, then we need to change the API, since that's not gonna happen (any time soon at least) I think we really should have it in the first tutorial.

We also have a specific example for the combination of grid search and pipeline, we can have the code snippet here, with a bit of explanation, and then link to that example.

Author: I'll try to come up with something, but I really don't think we should consider the getting-started guide as a tutorial.

The way I see it, the purpose of this guide is to showcase the main features of scikit-learn, ideally with as few cognitive overload as possible. IMO grid searching a pipeline adds a significant cognitive overload when the point is simply to explain grid search.

Author: I made this

```py
>>> from sklearn.datasets.california_housing import fetch_california_housing
>>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestRegressor
>>> from sklearn.model_selection import RandomizedSearchCV
>>> from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
>>> from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
>>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
>>> from scipy.stats import randint
...
>>> X, y = fetch_california_housing(return_X_y=True)
>>> X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, random_state=0)
...
>>> # create a pipeline
>>> pipe = make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), RandomForestRegressor(random_state=0))
...
>>> # define the parameter space that will be searched over. We here only
>>> # search over the parameters of the random forest.
>>> param_distributions = {'randomforestregressor__n_estimators': randint(1, 5),
...                        'randomforestregressor__max_depth': randint(5, 10)}
...
>>> # now create a searchCV object and fit it to the data
>>> search = RandomizedSearchCV(estimator=pipe,
...                             n_iter=5,
...                             param_distributions=param_distributions,
...                             random_state=0)
>>> search.fit(X_train, y_train)
RandomizedSearchCV(estimator=Pipeline(steps=[('standardscaler',
                                              StandardScaler()),
                                             ('randomforestregressor',
                                              RandomForestRegressor(random_state=0))]),
                   n_iter=5,
                   param_distributions={'randomforestregressor__max_depth': ...,
                                        'randomforestregressor__n_estimators': ...},
                   random_state=0)
>>> search.best_params_
{'randomforestregressor__max_depth': 9, 'randomforestregressor__n_estimators': 4}

>>> # the search object now acts like a normal pipeline / estimator
>>> # with max_depth=9 and n_estimators=4
>>> search.score(X_test, y_test)
0.73...
```

I don't really like it because I think it's way too much code for illustrating the grid searching (the current example is already too big IMO), and it's also a bad example because you don't care about scaling when using a RF.

I've tried to think of real-case scenarios e.g. using an imputer, but that requires much more code, and that is irrelevant w.r.t the point of the example which is to illustrate grid search (in its simplest form).

I'm still open to the idea, but unless we can have a simple example, I would be -1. We need simple examples in this guide else users will be discouraged right from the start.

Author: related: I added a note in 
a0359a2

  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import RandomizedSearchCV
  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
  >>> from scipy.stats import randint
  ...
  >>> X, y = fetch_california_housing(return_X_y=True)
  >>> X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, random_state=0)

  >>> forest = RandomForestRegressor(random_state=0)
  >>> param_distributions = {'n_estimators': randint(1, 5),
  ...                        'max_depth': randint(5, 10)}
  >>> search = RandomizedSearchCV(forest,
  ...                             n_iter=5,
  ...                             param_distributions=param_distributions,
  ...                             random_state=0)
  ...
  >>> search.fit(X_train, y_train)
  RandomizedSearchCV(estimator=RandomForestRegressor(random_state=0), n_iter=5,
                     param_distributions={'max_depth': ...,
                                          'n_estimators': ...},
                     random_state=0)

  >>> search.best_params_
  {'max_depth': 9, 'n_estimators': 4}
  >>> search.score(X_test, y_test)
  0.73...

Next steps
----------

This guide should give you an overview of some of the main features of the

> library, but there is much to scikit-learn! Please refer to our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
library, but there is much more to scikit-learn! Please refer to our
```

> :ref:`user_guide` for details on all the tools that we provide. You can also

Reviewer: surely you should also refer to tutorials and examples

supervised and unsupervised learning. It also provides various tools for
model fitting, data preprocessing, model selection and evaluation, and many
other utilities.

Fitting and predicting: estimator basics
----------------------------------------

``Scikit-learn`` provides dozens of built-in machine learning algorithms and
models, called :term:`estimators`. Each estimator can be fitted to some data
using its :term:`fit` method.

Here is a simple example where we fit a
:class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` to some very basic data::

  >>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
  >>> clf = RandomForestClassifier(random_state=0)
  >>> X = [[ 1,  2,  3],  # 2 samples, 3 features
  ...      [11, 12, 13]]
  >>> y = [0, 1]  # classes of each sample
  >>> clf.fit(X, y)
  RandomForestClassifier(random_state=0)

The :term:`fit` method generally accepts 2 inputs:

- The samples matrix (or design matrix) :term:`X`. The size of ``X``
  is typically ``(n_samples, n_features)``, which means that samples are
  represented as rows and features are represented as columns.
- The target values :term:`y` which are real numbers for regression tasks, or

>   integers for classification (they can also be strings). For unsupervized

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  integers for classification (or any other discrete set of values). For unsupervized
```

my point is not really to be accurate, I just don't want us to be misleading the user here.

  learning tasks, ``y`` does not need to be specified. ``y`` is usually 1d
  array where the ``i`` th entry corresponds to the target of the ``i`` th
  sample (row) of ``X``.

Both ``X`` and ``y`` are usually expected to be numpy arrays or equivalent

> :term:`array-like`, data types, though some estimators work with other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:term:`array-like` data types, though some estimators work with other
```

formats such as sparse matrices.

Once the estimator is fitted, it can be used for predicting target values of
new data. You don't need to re-train the estimator::

  >>> clf.predict(X)  # predict classes of the training data
  array([0, 1])
  >>> clf.predict([[4, 5, 6], [14, 15, 16]])  # predict classes of new data
  array([0, 1])

Transformers and pre-processors
-------------------------------

Machine learning worflows are often composed of different parts. A typical

> pipeline consists of a pre-processing step that transforms or impute the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pipeline consists of a pre-processing step that transforms or imputes the
```

data, and a final predictor that predicts target values.

In ``scikit-learn``, pre-processors and transformers follow the same API as
the estimator objects (they actually all inherit from the same

> ``BaseEstimator`` class). The transformer objects don't have a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:class:`base.BaseEstimator` class). The transformer objects don't have a
```

:term:`predict` method but rather a :term:`transform` method that outputs a
newly transformed sample matrix ``X``::

  >>> from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
  >>> X = [[0, 15],
  ...      [1, -10]]
  >>> StandardScaler().fit(X).transform(X)
  array([[-1.,  1.],
         [ 1., -1.]])

Sometimes, you want to apply different transformations to different features:

> the :ref:`ColumnTransformer<column_transformer>` is designed for these

Reviewer 2: the user guide may be a better link than the API page.

Author: it's the user guide :)

use-cases.

Pipelines: chaining pre-preocessors and estimators
--------------------------------------------------

Transformers and estimators (predictors) can be combined together into a
single unifying object: a :class:`~sklearn.pipeline.Pipeline`. The pipeline
offers the same API as a regular estimator: it can be fitted and used for
prediction with ``fit`` and ``predict``. As we will see later, using a
pipeline will also prevent you from disclosing some testing data in your

> training data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
training data, a.k.a. data leakage.
```

not sure though. Trying to hint the user towards the literature on the matter.

In the following example, we :ref:`load the Iris dataset <datasets>`, split it
into train and test sets, and compute the accuracy score of a pipeline on
the test data::

  >>> from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
  >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
  >>> from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
  >>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
  >>> from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score

>   ...

Reviewer 2: it's interesting that the doctest tests pass here. I remember they really needed a space after `...`

<cross_validation>`.

We here briefly show how to perform a 5-fold cross-validation procedure,
using the :func:`~sklearn.model_selection.cross_validate` helper. Note that
it is also possible to manually iterate over the folds, use different
data splitting strategies, and use custom scoring functions. Please refer to
our :ref:`User Guide <cross_validation>` for more details::

  >>> from sklearn.datasets import make_regression
  >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
  >>> from sklearn.model_selection import cross_validate
  ...
  >>> X, y = make_regression(n_samples=1000, random_state=0)
  >>> lr = LinearRegression()
  ...
  >>> result = cross_validate(lr, X, y)  # defaults to 5-fold CV
  >>> result['test_score']  # r_squared score is high because dataset is easy
  array([1., 1., 1., 1., 1.])

Automatic parameter searches
----------------------------

All estimators have parameters (often called hyper-parameters in the
literature) that can be tuned. The generalization power of an estimator
often critically depends on a few parameters. For example a
:class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor` has a ``n_estimators``

> parameters that determines the number of trees in the forest, and a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parameter that determines the number of trees in the forest, and a
```

  ...
  >>> # define the parameter space that will be searched over
  >>> param_distributions = {'n_estimators': randint(1, 5),
  ...                        'max_depth': randint(5, 10)}
  ...
  >>> # now create a searchCV object and fit it to the data
  >>> search = RandomizedSearchCV(estimator=RandomForestRegressor(random_state=0),
  ...                             n_iter=5,
  ...                             param_distributions=param_distributions,
  ...                             random_state=0)
  >>> search.fit(X_train, y_train)
  RandomizedSearchCV(estimator=RandomForestRegressor(random_state=0), n_iter=5,
                     param_distributions={'max_depth': ...,
                                          'n_estimators': ...},
                     random_state=0)
  >>> search.best_params_
  {'max_depth': 9, 'n_estimators': 4}

  >>> # the search object now acts like a normal random forest estimator
  >>> # with max_depth=9 and n_estimators=4
  >>> search.score(X_test, y_test)
  0.73...

.. note::

    In practice, you almost always want to :ref:`search over a pipeline
    <composite_grid_search>`, instead of a single estimator. One of the main

>     reason is that if you apply a pre-processing step to the whole dataset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    reasons is that if you apply a pre-processing step to the whole dataset
```

    without using a pipeline, and then perform any kind of cross-validation,
    you would be breaking the fundamental assumption of independence between
    training and testing data. Indeed, since you pre-processed the data
    using the whole dataset, some information about the test sets are
    available to the train sets. This will lead to over-estimating the

>     generalization power of the estimator.

Reviewer 2: we could also link to an external resource, like https://www.kaggle.com/alexisbcook/data-leakage, but not sure which resource to use really here.

>     Using a pipeline for cross-validation and searching will keep you from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Using a pipeline for cross-validation and searching will partly keep you from
```

I think. Since we're still doing multiple tests against the test data, instead of keeping a test set aside
and test the model against that once we have finalized the model and its parameters.

Author: Are you OK with "largely"?

Reviewer 2: yes
